# Model ISP 750H_Maintenance manual.pdf
Fuente: C:\Users\PC2B\Downloads\info\GRUA NUEVA\P&H RT\Equipo de Aire\Model ISP 750H_Maintenance manual.pdf

 MORRIS MATERIAL HANDLING, Inc. Provided by: INTER-NET SPECIALTY PRODUCTS INC. 665 Parkdale Avenue North, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada L8H 5Z1 Phone: (905) 547-9498 Fax: (905) 547-3155 www . ispcanada .com Email: info@ispcanada.com - 1 - January, 2009 XSTRATA COPPER, ANTOFAGASTA CITY CHILE, S.A. OVERHEAD CRANE CAB MODEL ISP 750H UNIT SERIAL No. 08-551 240 Volt D.C., Refrigerant, R-134a MAINTENANCE MANUAL - 2 - TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. INTER-NET SPECIALTY PRODUCTS INC. MODEL ISP 750H AIR CONDITIONING UNIT 1.1 MAINTENANCE MANUAL 1.1.1. PHOTOS 1.2 SPARE PARTS 1.2.1 COMPLETE PARTS LIST - 3 - 1.3 ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS Voltage: Inter-Net Specialty Products air conditioners use voltages that are high enough to cause death on contact. When installing electrical wires from the main power supply to the customer supplied fused disconnect switch, extreme care must be used to prevent electrical shock. All measures for shutting off power to the main power supply should be taken. The fused disconnect switch supplied by the customer must be turned off and locked off before working with electricity. High Pressure: The unit operates at pressures high enough to cause serious injury. The procedures in this manual provide instructions for bleeding high-pressure lines when necessary and should be strictly followed. Always use care when adjusting/opening valves on the air conditioning unit to avoid possible injury. Dangerous Moving Parts: The unit has moving parts that can cause serious injury. Never work on the equipment until power to the unit is turned off at the main fused disconnects. When performing minor service that allows or requires the unit to be running, observe the following safety rules:  Do not wear loose clothing.  Wear protective clothing and safety goggles or glasses.  Never place hands inside unit except when following instructions in this manual.  Always follow instructions when working on the air conditioning unit.  Procedures not covered in this manual could result in serious injury.  Observe all warnings and cautions that appear in this manual. Compressed Air: Working with compressed air can cause personal injury. Wear safety goggles and respirators when working with compressed air. - 4 - Caution:  Make certain all refrigerant lines are installed properly. Improper installation of refrigerant lines may damage the air conditioner and will void the unit’s warranty.  When brazing around the expansion valve bulb, remove the bulb from the line. Touching the bulb with heat from the brazing torch will ruin the expansion valve.  Never run the air conditioner without the air filters in place. Air filters must be kept clean. Operating the unit without the filters or with dirty filters will damage the unit and voids the warranty.  Never oil the mechanical filters in the air conditioning unit. Warranty/Guarantee: Inter-Net Specialty Products air conditioners are guaranteed to be free of mechanical and electrical defects for a period of one year from date of shipment when certain prescribed start-up and maintenance procedures are adhered to. ISP’s liability under this guarantee is limited to the repair or replacement of defective parts only, F.O.B. Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. The results of ordinary wear and tear, neglect, misuse, accident, improper storage or maintenance, abrasion or chemical action shall not be considered a defect under the foregoing warranty. ISP’s sole and exclusive obligation under any of its’ warranty shall be to repair or replace, at ISP’s option, any item of the goods found to be defective in materials or workmanship during the aforesaid warranty period. ISP is not responsible for damage due to incorrect installation or attempts to operate at above capacity or rate of voltage. Except where ISP has specified a particular product for a specific application described to it in writing, there is no warranty of merchantability or of fitness for a particular purpose. ISP reserves the right to substitute such materials as may be necessary because of restrictive orders of Government or Government agencies. The warranty is void if a licensed refrigeration mechanic does not commission the unit. ISP is not responsible for damage resulting from improper installation and/or maintenance. Attempts to operate units in excess of rated capacity, at low ambient temperatures, or with excessive or low voltage will nullify this warranty. - 5 - SECTION 1.1 - 6 - MAINTENANCE MANUAL - 7 - INTER-NET SPECIALTY PRODUCTS INC. MODEL ISP 750H UNIT 240 VOLT D.C., REFRIGERANT R-134a MAINTENANCE MANUAL REF: 08-551 DESIGN & METHOD OF OPERATION A. GENERAL SPECIFICATION The Model ISP 750H custom-built, air cooled, cooling unit utilizes one Bitzer open type compressor driven by 5 HP motor, one 1 HP condenser fan motor, and one 1 H.P. evaporator fan motor. The unit is complete with a pre-wired NEMA 12 electrical control panel designed for 240 Volt D.C. with starters. The unit uses refrigerant R-134a. It is designed for operating in 1300 F. (570 C.) ambient temperature maximum for cooling the operator cab. The air conditioner is a two-piece unit, “Split-System” type, includes an air cooled type condensing section and a filtering fan coil section location on the platform, the two being interconnected with refrigeration lines. The condenser section contains the compressor, compressor motor, condenser coil, condenser fan, receiver, section accumulator, drier, sight glass, pressure switches, and electrical panel. The filtering and cooling section contains the cooling coil, expansion valve, circulating blower, pressurization fan, and mechanical air filter. Cooling thermostat and selector switch is in a separate pilot control, to be located in the cab. B. STARTUP PROCEDURE The air conditioner has been pre-tested prior to shipment; it is recommended that the unit be put into operation by a qualified refrigeration mechanic and the following items performed before energizing the unit. I. The Model ISP 750H remote fan coil unit and the condensing unit should be mounted in place and wired according to the electrical schematic included with the unit. II. A 240 Volt D.C. NEMA 12 fused air conditioner disconnect switch should be mounted on or near the condensing unit and the power supply wired to the separate electrical panel mounted on the unit. The control lines should be field wired between the electrical panel and a junction box located on the cooling section. - 8 - INTER-NET SPECIALTY PRODUCTS INC. MODEL ISP 750H UNIT 240 VOLT D.C., REFRIGERANT R-134a MAINTENANCE MANUAL B. STARTUP PROCEDURE Check the condensate drain location, if the existing drain is not in the ideal location for the condensate to drain out, field connect a hose to the drain line and divert it to a more desirable location. IMPORTANT: 1) It is critical to fill the drain trap with water before starting up the unit. Otherwise, the unit will draw in dirt through the trap. 2) Flush the condensate drain pan every month to eliminate dirt plugging up the drain trap. 3) Under normal operating conditions, the condensate water from the evaporation coil will always keep the trap full. However, if it is operating in a hot, dry environment, it is important to make sure the trap is full of water, or Glycol in the winter (if necessary). Flushing out the drain trap every month will automatically satisfy the above requirement. IV. The separate thermostat selector switch supplied with the Model ISP750H should be mounted inside the cab at the 5 ft. level on the wall closest to the return air grille provided and wired according to the electrical schematic included with the unit. V. Hookup Refrigeration Lines Refrigeration Line Hookup Procedure 1. There are two 15 ft. number 8 hose lines shipped with the unit. The four valves A, B, C. and D are closed (see attached photos) for shipping. Do not open those valves until the unit is ready for commissioning. 2. Use nitrogen to blow out any dirt inside the hose. 3. At the points where the lines pass through the structure rubber grommets and silicone caulking should protect it. 4. Use pipe supports to maintain the safe span for pipes, if necessary. Run lines and secure lines with clamps. At any point where the refrigerant lines may be bumped or walked on, a metal shield should be provided to prevent physical damage to these lines. - 9 - INTER-NET SPECIALTY PRODUCTS INC. MODEL ISP 750H UNIT 240 VOLT D.C., REFRIGERANT R-134a MAINTENANCE MANUAL 5. If the refrigerant lines are exposed to radiant heat, a heat shield should be provided between the radiant heat source and the lines. 6. Insulate the suction line with pipe insulation, if the suction lines are exposed to radiant heat 7. After the refrigeration lines are installed, the joints should be checked for leaks. Use pot 1, 2, 3, 4 to pressure test and evaluate the hose joints. (see attached photo) 8. The refrigerant lines are now ready to be vacuumed. VI. Check all electrical panel connections for tightness in case of loosening problems related to shipping. VII. Supply the 240 Volt D.C. power supply and wired to the unit electrical panel. VIII. Open the suction and discharge valves on the refrigerant compressor and the line valves, which are normally shut and tagged prior to shipment. IX. Verify that the rotation of the evaporator fan is correct before unit startup. The Model ISP 750H unit is now ready for field startup. - 10 - INTER-NET SPECIALTY PRODUCTS INC. MODEL ISP 750H UNIT 240 VOLT D.C., REFRIGERANT R-134a MAINTENANCE MANUAL B. STARTUP PROCEDURE Set the disconnect switch to its’ ‘ON’ position. Open all valves in the refrigeration system. Select the 3 position selector switch to ‘SUMMER’. The evaporator blower which re-circulates and filters the cab air, will run continuously until the disconnect switch is set to the ‘OFF’ position or some fuse or overload fails. To turn the machine off, set the disconnect switch at the unit to the ‘OFF’ position. The operator can select ‘SUMMER / OFF / WINTER’ by using the 3- position selector switch inside the cab. Set the main disconnect switch to the “ON” position. This supplies 240 Volt D.C. power to the compressor, compressor motor, condenser fan motor, evaporator fan motor, and all the controls. Next, set the 2 position “CONTROL ISOLATION SWITCH”, located inside the unit NEMA 12 electrical control panel to its “ON” position. This permits power to energize all the unit controls. The function of this switch is to permit a qualified serviceman to isolate controls quickly while performing some repairs on the system. Finally, in order to energize the system, set the selector switch to summer or winter position. The Model ISP 750H unit will begin to operate. The evaporator fan will deliver its design air volume; the compressor, and all their associated control circuits will be activated upon demand as required by the controlling thermostat which shall be located around the return air grille. The Model ISP 750H unit will provide cooling or re-circulate the cab air depending on the selector switch position to satisfy the control settings of the thermostat controller. C. COOLING: Select the three position switch to summer: To obtain cooling, set the electrical panel mounted selector switch to summer and set the thermostat to the desired temperature setting; normally this is 720F. (220 C.); once set, the thermostat should be left alone. Caution: Advise your operator not to set the thermostat below 720F. (220 C.) at anytime. Setting the thermostat below 720F. (220 C.) will cause burn out of the compressor motor. - 11 - INTER-NET SPECIALTY PRODUCTS INC. MODEL ISP 750H UNIT 240 VOLT D.C., REFRIGERANT R-134a MAINTENANCE MANUAL When the cab temperature exceeds the thermostat set point, it will energize the delay timer (factory set at 1/2 minute intervals) and the dual pressure stat switch. If both devices are satisfied the compressor will run. C. COOLING The dual pressure stat consists of two switches (located in the compressor section), one for low pressure, one for high pressure; it serves as a safety device to protect the refrigerant compressor against lack of oil return due to low evaporator pressure or operating at too high a head pressure (caused by plugged condenser coil). The low-pressure switch is set to cut out at 15 psig and to cut in at 40 psig. Refrigerant suction pressure, and the high-pressure switch are set to cut out at 250 psig. ONLY a qualified refrigeration mechanic should alter these settings. Once the refrigerant suction pressure exceeds 40 psig, the low-pressure switch contacts in the dual pressure stat close and permits the compressor motor to be energized and start up, provided all fuses and overloads are also satisfied, the compressor will continue to operate until the thermostat is satisfied. Once the compressor motor is energized, the compressor pumps refrigerant through the system, the thermal expansion valve regulates the flow of refrigerant through the direct expansion coil, and the air conditioner starts to cool the room. The thermostat starts up and shuts down the compressor upon demand. In extreme heat load conditions, the thermostat setting 720F. (220 C.) will keep the unit running continuously. Under no circumstances should the thermostat be set below 720F. (220 C.) This action usually causes coil freeze up, unit cycling and compressor motor burn out. The operator should not cycle the selector switch back and forth between its ON/OFF positions too rapidly or adjust the thermostat about its set point too rapidly, since this causes the compressor to cycle. Such cycling usually results in a failure of a motor overload, a fuse, or possible motor and compressor damage. - 12 - INTER-NET SPECIALTY PRODUCTS INC. MODEL ISP 750H UNIT 240 VOLT D.C., REFRIGERANT R-134a MAINTENANCE MANUAL C. COOLING If the compressor will not start when the drive panel temperature exceeds 720F. (220 C.) with the switch set at ON and the thermostat at 720F. (220 C.) a serviceman should check the unit; most likely a fuse or overload has burned out or will need to reprogram the controller. Note: The compressor motor can only operate when the conditioned air fan is running. This is achieved by use of an auxiliary contact mounted on the conditioned air fan motor starter, which cuts off the power supply to the thermostat when the fan is off. This is done to prevent the coil from freezing up or the unit from overheating. If the compressor cycles on and off frequently (every 10 to 30 seconds), shut down the unit by setting the selector switch “OFF” and get a serviceperson to check the unit. This could be caused by a frozen evaporator coil a refrigerant leak or compressor problems. To prevent compressor cycling problems due to low evaporator back pressure, the dust filter in the evaporator section and the cab ceiling should be changed once a week depending on the site dirt load conditions. Under no circumstances, should one jump out fuses or motor overloads to keep the unit operati